Previously on Wayward Pines.
You didn't think Wayward
Pines ran itself. did you?
- Hey. Who are all
of these people?
- Volunteers.
(Pilcher) We were changing
the world. and as a result...
- (Shrieking)
- we ourselves were beginning
to change.
(Snarling)
(Pilcher) Testing cryonic suspension
was both dangerous and illegal.
- (Ethan) They're all asleep.
- (Pilcher) Yes.
This isn't a little town. Ethan.
This is a new civilization.
- (Ethan) You have to
tell them the truth.
- People are fragile.
They need time to adapt.
- Young minds are fearless.
- Welcome to
the first generation.
(Pilcher) They're less
ingrained in the old world.
They can accept the truth.
There's a new threat.
We don't know who they are.
but they're gonna
take down the fence.
- If they succeed...
- They're not going to succeed.
(Winding)
- ♪♪ (Music Box)
- It's ready.
(Pilcher) Ethan. It is
imperative you tell no one...
about what you've seen
and what you've heard.
I believe the survival of
humanity may well be in our hands.
(Parking Brake Clicks)
(Footsteps)
Ethan. When did you get back?
Have you been
sitting here all night?
Please tell me you
found something.
We have got to
get back to Seattle.
I cannot get ahold of anybody.
Mom's surgery is on Wednesday...
Theresa. Theresa.
There is no Seattle.
What are you talking about?
(Sighs)
Look.
When we were pulled
from those car wrecks.
we weren't taken directly here.
We were put into
some kind of a...
suspended animation.
What happened to your arm?
(Exhales) You're
gonna think I'm crazy.
(Sighs) But there's...
these creatures out there.
Monsters. I saw them
with my own eyes.
Cities destroyed.
This... This fake
little town is...
all that's left.
Ethan. what did they do to you?
(Sighs)
What did they do to you? Did
they take you back to the hospital?
No.
I need you to try to remember...
if they did anything to you. if
they injected you with something.
- You don't believe me.
- Are you sure?
I wasn't at the hospital.
(Sighs) 4028. What...
Okay. what does this mean?
That's the date.
Oh. Ethan.
(Buzzing)
(Beeping)
(Buzzing. Beeping Stop)
What's wrong?
It's the starter.
This might take a while.
You guys should walk.
Okay. Sure.
Let's go.
(Theresa Whispering)
Oh. sorry. sorry.
(Exhales)
(Door Opens)
Good morning. Mr. Burke.
Can I help you with
something. Pam?
No. but I think I can
help you with something.
Really?
Oh. Franklin Dobbs.
Do you think he's involved
with these subversives?
I don't know.
But when I find out the
answer to that question.
you'll be the first to know.
Until then. I've gotta do my
job. so... if you don't mind...
No. I don't mind. Go
ahead. Do your job.
I'm just here to help.
(Sighs) I would do
anything for my brother.
Even work hand-in-hand with you.
So how about it? You can't do
this alone. You need some help?
I can be a very good friend.
How about giving me access
to the surveillance system.
so I can see what
Franklin's been up to?
So. I kinda thought we
had moved past this whole...
walk-your-kid-to-school thing.
I just want to spend time
with you. if that's all right.
(Children Shouting. Distant)
Everything okay?
Yeah.
You ever miss Seattle?
I don't really think about it.
Really? Not even camping...
with your cousins. or
playing with Stanley?
(Chuckles) Stanley.
We're not supposed
to think about the past.
Right.
Good morning.
Good morning. Dr. Jenkins.
(Chattering)
(Laughing) Hey.
I like it here. Mom. I
have friends. I like school.
You'd probably like it too
if you gave it half a chance.
Okay. well. I'm glad things
are working out for you.
Good morning. guys. Nice to see
you. Theresa. (Whispering) Morning.
Hi. Hey. Ben. Mrs. Burke.
Amy. will you help Ben
find a biology textbook?
- There's a big stack of them
behind my desk.
- Yeah. sure. Come on.
You know. I have not set foot
inside that school or your classroom.
Is there a tour or a parent-teacher
conference coming up...
School is for children.
Theresa. not their parents.
Your job is to feed them
and keep them safe.
Let us do the rest.
(School Bell Rings)
Oh! That's my cue.
Nice to see you.
(Ben) Yeah. it looks really bad.
(Students Chattering. Laughing)
(Thunking)
(Clank)
I want to thank you for
coming down. Franklin.
As the new sheriff in town.
I'm making a point of getting to know
all the shopkeepers on Main Street.
Never really had a get-to-know-you
meeting with Sheriff Pope.
Franklin. we don't talk
about the past here.
You know that.
(Groans) (Chuckling)
Lighten up. Franklin.
I'm just messin' with ya.
(Chuckles) Oh. But listen.
I did have something...
of a personal nature that
I'd like to discuss with you.
Gophers.
Gophers? Yeah. that's right.
They're destroying my lawn.
And I remember
looking through your file
one day. and it said
that you worked in. uh.
explosive demolition.
Oh.
Afraid I... can't
help you. Sheriff.
Yeah. I should really be
getting back to the shop.
So...
(Door Opens)
(Door Closes)
(Megan) Open your
books to page 17.
- Go ahead and look at
all the pictures.
- (Students Giggling)
Giggle if you want.
For obvious reasons.
your textbooks will
remain here in class.
Parents tend to
be uncomfortable...
with these sorts of images.
Even biology can
be misunderstood.
The point is...
procreation is a beautiful...
and blessed thing.
And here in Wayward Pines.
that really is your
most important job.
Ben. Amy.
Would you step up front. please?
(Students Laughing)
Come on. Quickly.
Ah. behold...
the male and the female.
Two bodies
beautifully designed...
to fit together.
Effortlessly. seamlessly.
Like two perfect puzzle
pieces. Like hand in glove.
(Students Laughing) Yes. yes.
It's embarrassing to talk about.
But... what if... What
if Ben was a bee...
and Amy was a flower?
Well. that wouldn't be
funny at all. would it?
Wayward Pines needs
a new generation.
And one day. not
too long from now.
you all will have the honor...
of parenting the
first generation...
of 100% originals.
Now take a look around
the room. (Students Snicker)
This is a small town...
(Giggles) Right?
Chances are your mate. your co-parent.
is sitting right here in this room.
(Students Laugh) And it's part of
my job. as your teacher and counselor.
to help you find each other.
(Chuckles)
You two may sit down.
(Students Laughing)
That was weird.
♪♪ (Whistling "Twinkle.
Twinkle. Little Star")
Ah! There you are.
Nurse. could you give me a moment
alone with Dr. Jenkins. please?
Thank you.
Wonderful news.
You know I'm doing my annual
fertility consults this morning.
and already. two
new pregnancies.
Imagine.
two new members
of our first generation.
That is wonderful.
David. what is it?
Why are they trying
to undermine us?
Is it inevitable. this
passion for self-destruction?
Have you eaten today?
Pam.
is it happening again?
We always get like this.
And you worry so.
and you forget to eat.
And once your blood sugar drops.
the whole world looks gloomy. hmm?
Ethan Burke will ferret
out these troublemakers.
Sheriff Burke will
get us through this...
present difficulty.
That's very generous of you.
Well. you believe in
him. I believe in him.
Dr. Jenkins? Wayne
Johnson is here.
Oh. thank you. Nurse. (Chuckles)
Off to work.
- Great news
about the pregnancies.
- Oh. indeed. (Chuckles)
(Whispering) Just be
careful. All right. great.
Okay. For sure.
Yep. Bye-bye.
Morning. Ethan.
- Friend of yours?
- Oh. Franklin?
Yeah. I mean. you
know. it's a small town.
Yeah. you guys have been
seeing a lot of each other.
I'm gonna need you
to come with me...
so we can talk more privately.
Sure. What about?
About the damn bomb
in my truck. Harold.
I didn't... I don't know
anything about this.
Okay. Well. let's
go to my office.
and you can tell me
about what you don't know.
All right. let's go.
(Tires Screech)
Don't make me subdue
you again. Harold. (Groans)
Next time I won't be so gentle.
(Pants)
That's okay. folks.
He tripped and fell.
Let's go.
(Exhales Sharply)
Franklin made the bomb.
And you. or somebody who
works for you. planted it in my truck.
I swear. I don't know anything
about a bomb in your truck.
But you know about the other
bombs that Franklin made...
The ones that
are still out there.
'Cause that's what
this is all about. isn't it?
You want to take down the fence.
Don't you want to get out?
Just go somewhere. anywhere?
There is no somewhere.
no anywhere.
I want names... of
everybody in your group.
starting with your leader.
Who is he?
Or maybe it's a she?
There's no one else.
Really? I acted alone.
You acted alone. Mm-hmm.
So that means that you did
plant the bomb in my truck.
and you were lying about
it when you denied it.
But you're telling me
the truth now. is that it?
Great.
(Groans)
Okay.
Give this to Kate.
You can go now.
Um. I don't
understand. I confessed.
Yeah. I got it.
Go.
Mornin'. beautiful.
Sorry I'm late.
I wish I could
blame it on the traffic.
But somehow I don't
think that'll fly. (Chuckles)
Good morning. You seem
like you're in a great mood.
(Chuckles) Crispy
like a cracker.
I passed by that lot
this morning. Plot 33.
And I think I found something.
There appears to be a substructure
of some kind. underneath the soil.
- It felt like metal.
- Oh. a water tank maybe.
(Stammering) But it's
buried in an empty lot. Bill.
that wouldn't... Oh.
life's full of mysteries.
all chock-full of
head-scratchers.
I wouldn't think
about it too much.
Besides. you really shouldn't
snoop around out there.
And why is that?
The secret to a safe
and happy town...
is everyone minding
their own business.
People need to do
what they're supposed to.
And not do what they're not.
Right. Now.
uh. I need you to go down to the hospital
in a bit and pick up some files for me.
If you're not too busy.
(Knocking)
I got your note. Came
as soon as I could.
Good. Come on in.
Here. sit down.
Don't worry. I disabled
all the surveillance in here.
I thought you didn't
care about that.
It's not for my safety.
Coffee?
I heard about the
bomb in your truck.
You have to believe me.
I-I don't know who did that.
Good.
But you can figure
out who did. can't you?
Because you're their leader.
- What if I was?
- Come on. Kate! Of course you are.
Look. Harold was an accountant.
If there's anybody leading
resistance in this town. it's not Harold.
So who else is
involved in this group?
This group is the only thing
that's kept me sane here.
How long have you been active?
It evolved over time.
We started as something else.
Just a few of us
trying to connect.
We'd meet in secret. just
to be real with each other.
Uh. Kate Hewson.
Uh. Seattle.
I miss the ferry boats. oysters.
hiking Burroughs trail.
my friends.
I'm. uh... I'm-I'm Franklin.
(Clears Throat)
Uh...
(Mutters)
Um. Harold
Ballinger. Saint Paul.
Um. I have a fiancée.
How come you didn't
tell me any of this...
when I first got here?
Ethan. I've been
trapped here for 12 years.
Try and imagine
what that's like.
And then you show up. and
a week later you're sheriff?
All right. look. It stops now.
Why would I stop trying
to escape this prison?
(Sighs) Look.
The world that you and I knew.
the world outside the
fence. that no longer exists.
It's not 2014. it's not...
It's not even the
21st century anymore.
(Chuckles) What-What do you mean
it's not the 21st century anymore?
(Sighs)
Hey! Good class today.
Oh. thanks. Amy. Yeah.
You and Ben look so nice
together. How is that working out?
It's great actually.
I really like him. Like. a lot.
(Chuckles) Oh. I'm so glad.
As a teacher. it's so fulfilling when an
assignment turns into something more.
Yeah. he's sweet. Kind of shy.
I don't think he's
had much experience.
You might be his
first real girlfriend.
I was thinking of maybe
asking him out later tonight.
Go someplace secluded
and romantic. Mmm.
I just... I feel like I'm
ready for us to be more...
intimate.
(Megan) He's not pressuring you?
Ben? Oh. God. no.
I just hope I don't
have to pressure him.
(Chuckling) I'm so happy
for you. Enjoy this moment.
There's nothing like being young
and in love. (School Bell Ringing)
(Kate) So let me
get this straight.
Whoever's behind all this... the
people up there pulling the strings...
You work for them now?
(Sighs)
Hand over whoever it was that
planted that bomb in my truck.
surrender your arms and
explosives by tomorrow morning.
and everything stays between us.
You can't take down that fence.
Okay.
- (Door Closes)
- (Metal Clatters)
(Footsteps)
(Rhythmic Knocking)
You were right.
They got to Ethan.
We have to advance
the timetable.
He knows about us.
He knows about Franklin.
Exactly. We have a
very narrow window.
We're not gonna
get a second chance.
We have to tell everyone.
We execute tonight.
(Phone Ringing)
Ballinger Toys.
Oh! Well. hello. Pam.
Of course. Uh. it slipped
my mind completely. (Laughs)
We've been backlogged
with orders and...
Is-Is it... Is it possible
to reschedule?
Of course. I-I understand
the importance.
Uh. we'll be right over.
All right then.
It's our annual
fertility consult.
Of course it is. yeah.
There's no point in
making her suspicious.
(Sighs) Well...
So...
We have a married couple...
Young. fertile.
in their prime...
And yet somehow...
not pregnant.
Yeah. (Chuckles)
(Pam) I don't understand it.
Your lab work is all good.
There's no problem with
the sperm count. Good.
And you? Periods regular?
Everything is in working
order. (Harold) Mm-hmm.
Well. thanks so
much for coming in.
You know. I've always thought
so highly of the two of you.
Ever since I introduced you.
- Hmm.
- I mean. what a blend
of genetics.
The perfect Wayward
Pines couple.
Don't let me down.
(Woman On PA) Pharmacy. pick up
line 1-2. Pharmacy. pick up line 1-2.
How much time do you
need to gather the team?
Whatever you can give me.
And get with Ted and set
the backup plan in motion.
Wait.
Do you think we need both?
We're only gonna get one shot.
(Elevator Bell Dings)
(Dings)
Kate. Do you have a minute?
I'm very worried about Ethan.
- Come on.
- Okay.
(Kate) Did he tell you the story
about it being 2.000 years in the future?
How the world is destroyed
and we're the only humans left?
What is going on? I don't know.
But I think they have some way of
brainwashing people up on that mountain.
You know. I...
Okay. there's more.
(Sighs) The week
after I got here.
I finally found a
phone that worked.
I called a secure line
belonging to the Service.
and Agent Hassler
left me a message.
Adam Hassler? Mm-hmm.
What did he say?
That I was entering a
government experiment.
That I should lay low. blend in.
and that I may
be severely tested.
possibly by another agent.
You think that Ethan
is... I-I don't know.
But I can't rule it out.
Theresa. you know Hassler. He
is nothing if not a straight shooter.
How much of this
have you told Ethan?
I haven't. and I'm not
sure it's a good idea to.
(Chattering In Distance)
I really have to go.
You're a good person. Theresa.
And I wish we had met
under different circumstances.
I'm so sorry.
- Ethan. we're worried
about you.
- You're worried about me?
Yes.
What. do you think
this is all in my head?
(Scoffs) What do you
think... You think. uh.
I was brainwashed?
I saw stuff out there. Theresa.
I'm not making this up.
Everything I told you is true.
But you're telling me
that everything is gone.
Except us.
And I want to keep it that way.
So. please. tell me.
what else did she say?
She told me not to tell you
anything. and then she left.
She was very emotional
when she said good-bye.
like it was a
permanent good-bye.
- Where's Ben?
- He's at school.
Okay. I'm gonna go get him.
I think they're
planning something.
Hey. so I was thinking.
How about later tonight. you and I
sneak out for a walk in the woods?
(Chuckles) Isn't that...
against the rules?
Well. there are rules
and then there are rules.
There's a sweet spot I've
been meaning to show you.
It's like a little
meadow up in the trees.
How would we get there?
I have a plan.
Meet me after dinner?
Corner of Birch and Ninth?
Yeah. sure. (Chuckles)
It was fun in class today. huh?
I don't understand why people
get so nervous talking about biology.
(Stammering)
Yeah. I know. right?
- It's just nature.
- (Ethan) Ben!
- One second.
- (Sighs)
What? Look. I'm gonna
need you to come home.
I'm kind of busy right now.
Oh. hi.
I'll explain it to
you in the car.
Say good-bye. Come on. Dad.
Amy. I'm terribly sorry.
but Ben's gotta come home.
Okay. He'll talk to you later.
Go ahead. say good-bye.
Sorry. I gotta go.
It's okay. Meet me later.
(Sighs)
(Engine Starts)
(Harold) I just need to know.
Did you put that pipe bomb in
the sheriff's truck this morning?
Damn it. Ted. The
last thing we need...
is him breathing down our
necks. We're not murderers.
Why not? They murder.
You've been to your
share of reckonings.
Do you want me
to do this or not?
(Pam On Comm Link) Second
camera just went out in Zone 33.
(Ethan) No. it's Kate.
She's trying to throw us off.
(Electricity Crackling)
We got 10 minutes till
the guards circle around.
And once that fence is
breached. there's no turning back.
They'll be on us fast.
(Beeping)
(Ethan) Where
are the blind spots?
(Pam) There's one at
Zone 41. Right at the fence.
(Ethan) Almost there.
So if anyone's having
second thoughts.
now is the time
to go. all right?
(Ethan) Okay. that's it.
Everybody stay right where you are!
- Down on the ground!
- Ethan...
I'm not letting you
blow up that fence.
Get down on the ground!
Okay. Franklin.
Disarm that bomb.
Don't do it.
Disarm the bomb.
or she's dead. No.
(Whispering) No. Franklin.
(Hammer Cocks) (Kate) No.
(Kate Breathing Rapidly)
(Device Powering Down)
I trusted you. Let's go.
Come on. On your feet.
Let's go.
(Lock Clicks)
(Keys Jangling)
We had a deal. Kate.
They did something to you. Ethan.
You just don't know it. You'll see.
Very soon. we will
be back in Seattle.
overlooking that bay...
Seattle? No. forget it. Kate.
That's not gonna happen.
You've got to convince these
people to stop this insanity.
It's not gonna stop.
It's just begun.
Where's your husband?
There's another bomb.
It's a backup.
Where's Harold. Kate?
Where's Harold?
(Amy) Should be here any second.
It's always right on
time. right at 8:00.
We can catch a
ride up to the pines.
Uh. we could just
walk. (Chuckles)
It's more fun this way.
(Brakes Squeal)
Just relax. newbie. Done
this plenty of other times.
(Ethan) I need you
to locate Harold.
(Clears Throat) (Typing)
(Computers Whirring)
Harold Ballinger.
Last seen at the Biergarten.
Less than an hour ago.
- Who's that?
- That's...
(Computer Whirring)
Ted Laufer.
He drives the delivery truck.
Where is the truck now?
Well. he takes the
same route every day.
Finishes up on 16. Heads
up Main to Access 1.
Drops off the truck. and
then picks up another one.
And where does he
switch the two trucks?
At the fence.
What's that?
(Typing)
♪♪ (Music Box)
What's that?
♪♪ (Continues)
(Tires Squealing)
(Harold) Here he comes.
We gotta slow him down.
(Tires Screeching)
(Man Groaning)
(Harold) Get up. Get up.
(Grunting)
(Hissing)
♪♪ (Music Box)
(Brakes Squeal)
♪♪ (Stops)
(Amy Groaning)
Are you okay? (Groans)
Amy.
Amy. what are you doing here?
Ben?
Ben!